frame 1
Fourier transform is a mathematical model that decomposes a function or signal into its constituent frequencies.

frame 2
In this presentation, we will explore the Fourier transform in detail along with its type,
forward and inverse Fourier transform, example, and its properties.

frame 3
Both are used to decompose a function or signal from one domain to another domain.

frame 4
The forward Fourier transform is used to
transform a time-domain signal into its frequency-domain representation.
The formula is integration of the time-domain signal multiplied by
exponent of -j omega t with limit of - infinite to infinite
where omega is the angular frequency and j is the imaginary unit.

frame 5
The inverse Fourier transform is the reverse process of forward fourier transform
which converts a frequency-domain signal into its time-domain form.
Its formula is integration of the frequency-domain signal multiplied by exponent of j omega t with limit of - infinite to infinite.

frame 6
Usually the fourier transform of a signal is represented as script F
which is the fourier transform operator and the inverse Fourier transform operator is inverse script F.
An important note is that inverse fourier transform of a fourier transformed signal gives back the time-domain signal.

frame 7
Here is an example of fourier transform where rect(t) is a rectangular pulse in time-domain and
sinc(omega) is a frequency-domain signal.

frame 8
Then the forward Fourier transform of rect(t) is sinc(ω), the red colored graph and the inverse Fourier
transform of sinc(ω) is rect(t), the blue colored graph.

frame 9
Now we will see some properties among various properties of fourier transform.

frame 10
The first is linearity property.

It describes that the Fourier transform of a linear combination of signals is the same linear combination of their individual Fourier transforms.

From now, for every property, we will use these two signals as example.

Fourier transform of 2 multiplied by rect(t) is equal to the 2 multiplied by fourier transform of rect(t)

Again, Fourier transform of 3 multiplied by rect(t) is equal to the 3 multiplied by fourier transform of rect(t)

So Fourier transform of a linear combination of rectangular pulses is the same linear combination of their individual Fourier transforms.

2nd comes the time shifting property

According to this property, time shift in time domain generates phase shift in frequency domain.

Let take an example of the time shifted signal rect(t - 1)
its corresponding phase shifted signal is sinc(omega) multiplied by exponent of -j omega

The phase shift is proportional to omega
The factor −1 indicates that the phase shift is negative, corresponding to a delay in the time domain by 1 unit.

Scaling a signal in the time domain results in an inverse scaling in the frequency domain.
